The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing
From the book “The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing”
by Al Ries and Jack Trout

1. The Law of Leadership
It is better to be ﬁrst than it is to be better.

2. The Law of the Category
Ifyou can’t be ﬁrst in a category, set up a new category you can be ﬁrst in.

3. The Law of the Mind
It’s better to be ﬁrst in the mind than to be ﬁrst in the marketplace.

4. The Law of Perception
Marketing is not a battle ofproducts, it’s a battle ofperceptions.

5. The Law of Focus
The most powerful concept in marketing is owning a word in the prospect’s mind

6. The Law of Exclusivity
Two companies cannot own the same word in the prospect’s mind.

7. The Law of the Ladder
The strategy to use depends on which rung you occupy on the ladder.

8. The Law of Duality
In the long run, every market becomes a two-horse race.

9. The Law of the Opposite
Ifyou’re shooting for second place, your strategy is determined by the leader.

10. The Law of Division
Over time, a category will divide and become two or more categories.

11. The Law of Perspective
Marketing effects take place over an extended period of time.

12. The Law of Line Extension
There’s an irresistable pressure to extend the equity of the brand.

13. The Law of Sacriﬁce
You have to give up something in order to get something.

14. The Law of Attributes
For every attribute, there is an opposite, effective attribute.The Law of Candor
When you admit a negative, the prospect will give you a positive.

15, The Law of Candor
When you admit a negative, the prospect will give you a positive.

16. The Law of Singularity
In each situation, only one move will produce substantial results.

17. The Law of Unpredictability
Unless you write your competitor’s plans, you can’t predict the future

18. The Law of Success
Success often leads to arrogance, and arrogance to failure.

19. The Law of Failure
Failure is to be expected and accepted.

20. The Law of Hype
The situation is often the opposite ofthe way it appears in the press.

21. The Law of Acceleration
Successful programs are not built on fads, they’re built on trends.

22. The Law of Resources
Without adequate funding an idea won’t get offthe ground.
